
# Yesterday I finished The System administration Section and The half of pipeline section and here is my POC :
**NOTE : Since most of the POC is within the Jenkins GUI, I cannot include all the screenshots, as there would be more than 50 photos. Instead, I will provide the steps individually**

- #### Enable Role-based Authorization Strategy to assign permission to Users&#x20; 

Plugin installation steps:\
\
\
1: Go to `Manage Jenkins`, then click on `Plugins` tab.\
\
2: Click on `Available` section and search for `Role-based Authorization Strategy` plugin.\
\
3: Then mark the box `check` and click on `Install without restart` button.\
\
4: After that click on `Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running`.\
\
\
Steps to enable `Role-Based Strategy` authorization in Jenkins security settings:\
\
\
1: Go to `Manage Jenkins`, then click on `Security` tab.\
\
2: Then search for `Role-Based Strategy` under `Authorization` section and check the box.\
\
3: Click on the `Save` button at the bottom of the page.

<mark style="color:blue;">After that you can assign roles to users by</mark> <mark style="color:blue;"></mark><mark style="color:blue;">`Manage Jenkins`</mark><mark style="color:blue;">, then click on</mark> <mark style="color:blue;"></mark><mark style="color:blue;">`Manage and Assign Roles`</mark> <mark style="color:blue;"></mark><mark style="color:blue;">tab.</mark>

<mark style="color:red;">from there you can Create Roles , then assign the roles to the Users.</mark>

&#x20;\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Create a `List View`

1: Click on the `+` button next to `All`in Jenkins dashboard.\
\
2: Enter the name of the view in `Name` section and check `List View` box, then click `Create`.\
\
3: Again on the new window click on `ok` button.

\--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Change the default number of `executors` in Jenkins :&#x20;

1: Go to `Manage Jenkins` and click on `System` under `System Configuration`.\
\
2: Then input value `4` in the box under `# of executors`.\
\
3: Click on `Save` button on bottom of the window.&#x20;

\--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Add `Maven` installations in Jenkins :&#x20;

1: Go to `Manage Jenkins` and click on `Tools` under `System Configuration`.\
\
2: Then Click on `Add Maven` button under `Maven` section.\
\
3: By default the Installer is set to `Install from Apache`, so you don't need to change that.\
\
4: Now add a name `dev_maven` and select the version `3.8.4` from the drop down menu.\
\
5: Click on the `Save` button on bottom of the page.

\---------------------------------------------------------------------

Change SCM checkout retry count Jenkins : \
\
1: Go to `Manage Jenkins` and click on `System` under `System Configuration`.\
\
2: Set `SCM checkout retry count` value to `2`.\
\
3: Click on `save` button on bottom of the page.

\----------------------------------------------------------------------
- ### backup steps :&#x20;
Create the backup directory first from command line:

```sh
sudo mkdir /var/lib/jenkins/jenkins_backup
sudo chown -R jenkins /var/lib/jenkins/jenkins_backup
```

\
Login into the Jenkins and follow the below given steps:\
1\. Go to `Manage Jenkins`.\
\
2\. Click on `ThinBackup`.\
\
3\. Go to `Settings` and enter `/var/lib/jenkins/jenkins_backup` as the `Backup directory`, tick `Backup plugins archives` check box and save the changes.\
\
4\. Click on `Backup Now`.

\--------------------------

- ### Restore Steps in Jenkins :&#x20;

if you want to restore a backup you can use thinbackup plugin

Restore backup steps :&#x20;

1\. Go to `Manage Jenkins`.\
2\. Click on `ThinBackup`.\
3\. Click on `Restore`.\
4\. Select the latest backup available from the list, select `Restore plugins` and then click `Restore` (you need not to select any other options).\
5\. Restart Jenkins service.

```sh
service jenkins restart
```
---------------------------------------------------------------
## pipline 

- Download pipeline plugin
1. Go to Manage Jenkins.

2. Click on Plugins.

3. Under Available, search for Pipeline plugin.

4. Select it and install.

5. Once installed click on Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running.
---------------------------------------------------
2- Create a simple pipeline job : 

1. From Dashboard On the left side click on New Item.

2. Write the job name hello-world.

3. Select Pipeline job.

4. Under Pipeline section keep selected Pipeline script as Definition and add below given code in the Script
```
pipeline {
    agent any
    stages {
        stage('Hello') {
            steps {
                echo 'Hello World'
            }
        }
    }
}
```
5. Finally save the job.
